dyngraphplot
===

dyngraphplot is a Python module for the drawing of dynamic force-directed graphs that change over time. It is based on the algorithm by Frishman, Tal in the paper:
[Online Dynamic Graph Drawing](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4433990)

This is a simplified, non-parallel version of that algorithm without the
partitioning steps, but this way it's easier to implement and use, while
performance should still be sufficient for smaller-size graphs.

The implementation heavily relies on the matplotlib and networkx modules.

To install dyngraphplot, do:
```sh
$ pip install dyngrahplot
```

Then, to initialize and plot a graph:
```python
import networkx as nx
from dyngraphplot import DynGraphPlot

# create a random graph and plot it
G = nx.fast_gnp_random_graph(50, 0.1)
visualizer = DynGraphPlot(G)

# update nodes and edges in the graph
new_nodes = [50,51]
new_edges = [(50,20),(51,30), (50,51)]
visualizer.update(G, new_nodes, new_edges)
```

Notes
----
 - **GUI Freeze:** A persistent bug in the matplotlib module causes the plot window to freeze when in interactive (non-blocking) mode. Unforunately, as dyngraphplot needs to draw dynamic graphs, the interactive mode must be used and to allow figure updating. This means that the plot windows generated by dyngraphplot can't be interacted with and therefore can't be resized, zoomed in or saved.
 I'm exploring possible solutions to this using a threading / multiproccessing architecture, but it may be unstable, back-end specific or impossible.

 - **Window position and size:** Because of the previously GUI freeze problem, dyngraphplot includes a _(hopefully)_ OS and back-end agnostic way to set the plot window position and size, since it won't be possible to resize it later.

 - **Node borders:** Normally networkx.draw() fails to pass the `edgecolors` attribute to `matplotlib.scatter`, which means nodes are drawn without borders. A workaround is included in dyngraphplot that manually does this, although this causes a very minor visual bug where labels of overlapping nodes may be drawn with incorrect depths.

License
----

MIT
